# HerokuS3Backups

**Experimental**

This gem allows you to easily backup your PG database in Heroku to an S3 bucket.


## Requirements
- Heroku CLI
- S3
- {optional} Heroku Scheduler(automated backups)

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem "heroku_s3_backups"
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install heroku_s3_backups

## Usage
The following environment variables must be set:
- S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID - Key of an account that has write access to the backup bucket
- S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY - Key of an account that has write access to the backup bucket
- S3_PRODUCTION_BACKUP_BUCKET - Bucket to backup db to
- HEROKU_API_KEY - Auth token for Heroku to access the app’s DB settings(ie pg:backup). This can be generated by running `heroku auth:token` from the CLI.

To run:
`HerokuS3Backups::Heroku.new("name-of-application").backup("path/to/backup/folder")`

## Automating backups
To automate backups in Heroku, you can create a rake task and add the ‘Heroku Scheduler’
add-on to have it run the task in preset intervals.

Example:
1) Create a rake task in `db.rake` named `s3_production_backup`
2) Have the task run `HerokuS3Backups::Heroku.new("name-of-application").backup("path/to/backup/folder")`
3) Set Heroku scheduler to run `rake db:s3_production_backup`

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/[USERNAME]/heroku_s3_backups. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the HerokuS3Backups project’s codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/[USERNAME]/heroku_s3_backups/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
